W-14869334-rtf-private-registry-update-kt (#1218)
mulesoft/docs-runtime-fabric: modules/ROOT/pages/configure-local-registry.adoc

 

[IMPORTANT]
You cannot use local registry for installation or management of Runtime Fabric operator on OpenShift.

* You can use xref:install-rtfctl.adoc[Runtime Fabric command line utility (`rtfctl`)] version 0.3.150 or later. `rtfctl` installs Runtime Fabric agent to the latest version by default.
* You can use Helm to install Rutime Fabric and configure your local registry.
* You can use a local registry only if you create a new Runtime Fabric instance of version 1.12.0 or later.
+
If you set up a local registry, you can upgrade to a version later than 1.12.0 without reinstalling Runtime Fabric.
+
You cannot add a local registry to any version of an existing Runtime Fabric instance, even if you upgrade that installation to 1.12.0 or later.
* If you create a Runtime Fabric instance to use with a local registry, you cannot later reconfigure it to use the `rtf-runtime-registry` endpoint. To use the `rtf-runtime-registry` endpoint, you must install a new Runtime Fabric instance using the standard installation procedure.

> * You're responsible for synchronizing your registry with the Runtime Fabric registry.

Reviewer: You are responsible for synchronizing your local registry with required dependencies

- Synchronize RTF core software images/dependencies - Review the section below to automatically synchronize required dependencies<Add link to section >
- Synchronize Mule runtime images/dependencies  -  Review the section below to manually synchronize required dependencies<Add link to section >
- Synchronize third party dependencies required by your application - MuleSoft doesn’t provide additional software to synchronize third party dependencies and images. Push all the dependency images for your Mule app to your local registry before you start the deployments.

[IMPORTANT]
You cannot use local registries during the installation of OpenShift operator. However, you can use local registries with OpenShift RTF to store Mule Docker images and install and manage Runtime Fabric for running Mule apps. 

> * You can use xref:install-rtfctl.adoc[Runtime Fabric command line utility (`rtfctl`)] version 0.3.150 or later. Note that `rtfctl` installs Runtime Fabric agent to the latest version by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can use xref:install-rtfctl.adoc[Runtime Fabric command line utility (`rtfctl`)] version 0.3.150 or later. `rtfctl` installs Runtime Fabric agent to the latest version by default.
```

> * You can use xref:install-rtfctl.adoc[Runtime Fabric command line utility (`rtfctl`)] version 0.3.150 or later. Note that `rtfctl` installs Runtime Fabric agent to the latest version by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can use xref:install-rtfctl.adoc[Runtime Fabric command line utility (`rtfctl`)] version 0.3.150 or later. `rtfctl` installs Runtime Fabric agent to the latest version by default.
```

> * You can use Helm to install Rutime Fabric and configure your local registry.

Reviewer 2: Is this a limitation?

Author: Is not a limitation. Users can use Helm or rtfctl to install Runtime Fabric

* You can use a local registry only if you create a new Runtime Fabric instance of version 1.12.0 or later.
+
If you set up a local registry, you can upgrade to a version later than 1.12.0 without reinstalling Runtime Fabric.
+
You cannot add a local registry to any version of an existing Runtime Fabric instance, even if you upgrade that installation to 1.12.0 or later.
* If you create a Runtime Fabric instance to use with a local registry, you cannot later reconfigure it to use the `rtf-runtime-registry` endpoint. To use the `rtf-runtime-registry` endpoint, you must install a new Runtime Fabric instance using the standard installation procedure.

> * You're responsible for synchronization between your registry and the Runtime Fabric registry. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You're responsible for the synchronization between your registry and the Runtime Fabric registry. 
```

Reviewer 2: More active wording: "You're responsible for synchronizing your registry with the Runtime Fabric registry."

+

> MuleSoft doesn't provide additional software to synchronize images between the registries. Push all the dependency images for your version to your local registry before you start the installation. See the xref:release-notes::runtime-fabric/runtime-fabric-release-notes-2.x.x.adoc[Runtime Fabric release notes] for the required dependencies for your Runtime Fabric version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MuleSoft doesn't provide additional software to synchronize images between the registries. Push all the dependency images for your version to your local registry before you start the Runtime Fabric installation. See the xref:release-notes::runtime-fabric/runtime-fabric-release-notes-2.x.x.adoc[Runtime Fabric release notes] for the required dependencies for your Runtime Fabric version.
```

> MuleSoft doesn't provide additional software to synchronize images between the registries. Push all the dependency images for your version to your local registry before you start the installation. See the xref:release-notes::runtime-fabric/runtime-fabric-release-notes-2.x.x.adoc[Runtime Fabric release notes] for the required dependencies for your Runtime Fabric version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MuleSoft doesn't provide additional software for synchronizing images between the registries. Push all of the dependency images for your version to your local registry before you start the installation. See the xref:release-notes::runtime-fabric/runtime-fabric-release-notes-2.x.x.adoc[Runtime Fabric release notes] for the required dependencies for your Runtime Fabric version.
```

[[synchronize]]
== Synchronize Dependencies Images to Your Local Registry

To install Runtime Fabric, you must first synchronize the dependencies images to your local registry. You can perform the synchronization by running a script automatically or running comands manually. 

[tabs]
====
Synchronize Automatically:: 

+
--
To synchronize the dependencies images automatically, you ran a bash script that uses `docker`, `curl`,  and `jq` tools.

[NOTE]
Automated registry synchronization is available from Runtime Fabric version 2.6.0 onwards. Previous dependencies can not be retrieved using this script.

Ensure that your xref:access-management::permissions-by-product.adoc#runtime-manager[Access Management permission for Runtime Manager] is set to *Read Runtime Fabric*, which enables you to query Runtime Fabrics in your organization.

. In your shell script, run the following script, replacing `agent-version`, `authorization-token`, `mulesoft-docker-server`, and any other parameter value where appropriate:

+
[source,copy]
----

##!/usr/bin/env bash

> dependencies=$(curl https://qax.anypoint.mulesoft.com/runtimefabric/api/agentmanifests/<agent-version>         -H 'Authorization: bearer <authorization-token>' | jq -c '.dependencies |.[] | select(.provider | contains("generic")) | "\(.artifact):\(.version)"' | sed 's/"//g')

Reviewer 3: Where it says `qax.anypoint.mulesoft.com` we should advertise it as the platform url, and tell customers which values they can use.

> * You also need to synchronize in your registry the Mule runtime versions you intend to use for application deployments. Refer to the xref:release-notes::runtime-fabric/runtime-fabric-runtimes-release-notes.adoc[Runtime Fabric Patch Update Release Notes] for information about the latest Mule runtime patch versions. The location of the image will follow this format: `rtf-runtime-registry.kqa.msap.io/mulesoft/poseidon-runtime-4.4.0:<tag>`.

Reviewer: Add a title "Synchronize Mule runtime dependencies and images to Your Local Registry"

[[synchronize]]

> == Synchronize Dependencies Images to Your Local Registry

Reviewer: Synchronize Runtime Fabric core software dependencies and images to Your Local Registry

> To install Runtime Fabric, you must first synchronize the dependencies images to your local registry. You can perform the synchronization by running a script automatically or running comands manually. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install Runtime Fabric, you must first synchronize the dependencies images to your local registry. You can perform the synchronization by either running a script automatically or executing commands manually. 
```

[tabs]
====
Synchronize Automatically:: 

+
--

> To synchronize the dependencies images automatically, you ran a bash script that uses `docker`, `curl`,  and `jq` tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To synchronize the dependencies images automatically, run a bash script that uses the `docker`, `curl`,  and `jq` tools.
```

> To synchronize the dependencies images automatically, you ran a bash script that uses `docker`, `curl`,  and `jq` tools.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To synchronize the dependencies images automatically, run a bash script that uses the `docker`, `curl`,  and `jq` tools.
```

[NOTE]

> Automated registry synchronization is available from Runtime Fabric version 2.6.0 onwards. Previous dependencies can not be retrieved using this script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Automated registry synchronization is available from Runtime Fabric version 2.6.0 onwards. Previous dependencies cannot be retrieved using this script.
```

> Automated registry synchronization is available from Runtime Fabric version 2.6.0 onwards. Previous dependencies can not be retrieved using this script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Automated registry synchronization is available from Runtime Fabric version 2.6.0 onwards. Previous dependencies cannot be retrieved using this script.
```

Ensure that your xref:access-management::permissions-by-product.adoc#runtime-manager[Access Management permission for Runtime Manager] is set to *Read Runtime Fabric*, which enables you to query Runtime Fabrics in your organization.

> . In your shell script, run the following script, replacing `agent-version`, `authorization-token`, `mulesoft-docker-server`, and any other parameter value where appropriate:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. In your shell script, run the following script, replacing `agent-version`, `authorization-token`, `mulesoft-docker-server`, and any other parameter value where appropriate:
```

> . In your shell script, run the following script, replacing `agent-version`, `authorization-token`, `mulesoft-docker-server`, and any other parameter value where appropriate:

Reviewer 2: Seems funny to run a script within a script. Is there other wording you can use?

+
[source,copy]
----

##!/usr/bin/env bash

> dependencies=$(curl <platform-url>/<agent-version>         -H 'Authorization: bearer <authorization-token>' | jq -c '.dependencies |.[] | select(.provider | contains("generic")) | "\(.artifact):\(.version)"' | sed 's/"//g')

Reviewer 4: `dependencies=$(curl <platform-url>/runtimefabric/api/agentmanifests/<agent-version>         -H 'Authorization: bearer <authorization-token>' | jq -c '.dependencies |.[] | select(.provider | contains("generic")) | "\(.artifact):\(.version)"' | sed 's/"//g')`

for i in $dependencies
do
    echo "Processing $i"
    docker pull <mulesoft-docker-server>/mulesoft/$i
    docker tag  <mulesoft-docker-server>/mulesoft/$i <local-docker-server>/mulesoft/$i
    docker push <local-docker-server>/mulesoft/$i
done
----
+
[%header%autowidth.spread]
.Script Parameters
|===
| Parameters | Description

> | `platform-url` | Anypoint Platform URL, such as https://anypoint.mulesoft.com, or https://eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `platform-url` | Anypoint Platform URL, such as https://anypoint.mulesoft.com, or https://eu1.anypoint.mulesoft.com.
```

| `agent-version` | Runtime Fabric agent release version required for the synchronization.

> | `authorization-token` |  Obtain the authorization token required for the synchronization through the connected apps capability and a link redirects to the connected apps page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `authorization-token` |  Authorization token required for the synchronization through the connected apps capability and a link redirects to the connected apps page.
```

Reviewer 2: I am confused by this wording. Is it the token that is providing the link to the connected apps page? Maybe:
"Authorization token required for using connected apps to perform the synchronization. When you use this token, a link redirects to the connected apps page.

| `mulesoft-docker-server` |  MuleSoft Docker server required for the synchronization. +

> For US control plane: `rtf-runtime-registry.kprod.msap.io` +

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the US control plane: `rtf-runtime-registry.kprod.msap.io` +
```

> For EU control plane: `rtf-runtime-registry.kprod-eu.msap.io`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the EU control plane: `rtf-runtime-registry.kprod-eu.msap.io`
```

|==

--
Synchronize Manually:: 

+
--
To synchronize the dependencies images manually, follow these steps:

> . Log in into your own private container registry and run the following command, replacing `docker-server` where appropriate:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Log in to your private container registry and run the following command, replacing `docker-server` where appropriate:
```

> . Log in into your own private container registry and run the following command, replacing `docker-server` where appropriate:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Log in in to your own private container registry and run the following command, replacing `docker-server` where appropriate:
```

# docker tag rtf-runtime-registry.kprod-eu.msap.io/mulesoft/rtf-agent:v1.12.0 <docker-server>/mulesoft/rtf-agent:v1.12.0 
# docker push <docker-server>:5000/mulesoft/rtf-agent:v1.12.0
----
--
====

== Configure Your Local Registry for Runtime Fabric

To configure a local registry, you must gather and add the necessary credentials to synchronize the registries. 

=== Before You Begin

Ensure that you've performed the following tasks: 

. Set up, configure, and test your private Docker image registry.

> . <<synchronize, Synchronize>> to your local registry all the Docker images you need to install Runtime Fabric:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. <<synchronize, Synchronize>> to your local registry all of the Docker images that you need to install Runtime Fabric:
```

+
See the xref:release-notes::runtime-fabric/runtime-fabric-release-notes-2.x.x.adoc[Runtime Fabric release notes] for the required dependencies for your Runtime Fabric version. 
+
[NOTE]
Dependency versions are specific to the Runtime Fabric version. 

> To configure your local registry using `rtfctl` or `helm`, select one of the following options:

Reviewer 4: To install RTF with local registry using `rtfctl` or `helm`, select one of the following options:

> To install Runtime Fabric with local registry using `rtfctl` or `helm`, select one of the following options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install Runtime Fabric to the local registry using `rtfctl` or `helm`, select one of the following options:
```

> To install Runtime Fabric with local registry using `rtfctl` or `helm`, select one of the following options:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To install Runtime Fabric to the local registry using `rtfctl` or `helm`, select one of the following options:
```

> To install Runtime Fabric with local registry using `rtfctl` or `helm`, select one of the following options:

Reviewer 2: I am not sure if my comment makes sense. Are you installing to a local registry or by using a local registry?

Author: You install RTF with a local registry and you use on of the installing options rtfctl or helm

The `rtfctl uninstall` command deletes any pull secret you specify during installation.

When using `rtfctl` to perform a backup and restore procedure, the backups point to your local registry URL and pull secret. 

== Configure Your Local Registry for Runtime Fabric using Helm

To configure a local registry, you must gather and add the necessary credentials to synchronize the registries. 

=== Before You Begin

Ensure that you've performed the following tasks: 

. Set up, configure, and test your private Docker image registry.
. Synchronize to your local registry all the Docker images you need to install Runtime Fabric:
+
See the xref:release-notes::runtime-fabric/runtime-fabric-release-notes-2.x.x.adoc[Runtime Fabric release notes] for the required dependencies for your Runtime Fabric version. 
+
[NOTE]
Dependency versions are specific to the Runtime Fabric version.

=== Configure Your Local Registry and Install Runtime Fabric
To configure a local registry for Runtime Fabric using Helm, follow these steps:

> . In your shell script, run the following script to synchronize container images to a local registry. Note that you must update `PLATFORM_URL`, `AGENT_VERSION`,  `AUTHORIZATION_TOKEN`, and `ACTIVATION_DATA`.

Reviewer 3: This is generic, not only for the helm usage.

We should use this script as a way to automate what is being defined above as a manual repetitive step.

Reviewer 4: Agree.  image sync is before installing a RTF.  The script is one way to simplify the image sync step.  A user would still need manually set up a rtfctl or helm managed RTF by following instructions in RTF creation page.

+
The following script is an example:
+
[source,copy]
----

> ##!/usr/bin/env bash

Reviewer 3: We should strive to make the script as easy as possible. I would remove the mule runtime parts to be done separately
I would also leave the docker login parts for the user to resolve, they will need to login to both their docker server and to our docker server.

You can check for a simplified version of the script here: 

https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ohhndG0Yv3twfUvNx7ZDweZfxsliGrq39Sycg8s37lg/edit#heading=h.wj5hrxc9pf7e

docker push "${PRIVATE_REGISTRY_LOCATION}/mulesoft/${MULE_RUNTIME}"
----

[start=2]
. Create a Runtime Fabric using Runtime Manager and select your desired Kubernetes service.
. In Runtime Manager, select the *Helm* path, and follow the instructions on the screen platform.
. Obtain your private `docker-server`, `docker-username`, and `docker-password`.
. Following the *Helm* path instructions in Runtime Manager, create a secret with your docker server name, username, and password by running the following command in your Unix shell:
+
[source,copy]
----
kubectl create secret docker-registry rtf-pull-secret --namespace test-gke-rtf-qax-helm --docker-server=<docker-servername> --docker-username=<docker-username --docker-password=<docker-password> --docker-email=<docker-email>
----

[start=6]
. Following the *Helm* path instructions, download the values.yaml file and modify its values. The following is a values.yaml file example:
+
[source,copy]
----
activationData: xxx
proxy:
 http_proxy:
 http_no_proxy:
 monitoring_proxy:
muleLicense: 
customLog4jEnabled: false
global:
 crds:
  install: false
 authorizedNamespaces: false
 image:

>   rtfRegistry: us-west2-docker.pkg.dev/mulesoft-rtf-gke-test

Reviewer 3: We should tell customers to put their own registry here and not make reference to out specific example.

Reviewer 4: you may want to remove all specific values, ie.
PLATFORM_URL=<platform-url>
AGENT_VERSION=<agent-version>
AUTHORIZATION_TOKEN=<authorization-token>
MULESOFT_DOCKER_SERVER=rtf-runtime-registry.kprod.msap.io
PRIVATE_REGISTRY_LOCATION=<private-registry-location>
ACTIVATION_DATA=<rtf-activation-data>
MULE_RUNTIME=<mule-runtime-version-that-you-want>

--
. <<synchronize,Synchronize your container images>> to your local registry.
. xref:install-helm.adoc#create-a-runtime-fabric-using-runtime-manager[Create a Runtime Fabric using Runtime Manager], and gather the activation data.
. In Runtime Manager, select the *Helm* path, and follow the instructions on the screen platform.
. Obtain your private `docker-server`, `docker-username`, and `docker-password`.
. Following the *Helm* path instructions in Runtime Manager, create a secret with your docker server name, username, and password by running the following command in your Unix shell:
+
[source,copy]
----
kubectl create secret docker-registry rtf-pull-secret --namespace test-gke-rtf-qax-helm --docker-server=<docker-servername> --docker-username=<docker-username --docker-password=<docker-password> --docker-email=<docker-email>
----

[start=6]
. Following the *Helm* path instructions, download the values.yaml file and modify its values. The following is a values.yaml file example:
+
[source,copy]
----
activationData: xxx
proxy:
 http_proxy:
 http_no_proxy:
 monitoring_proxy:
muleLicense: 
customLog4jEnabled: false
global:
 crds:
  install: false
 authorizedNamespaces: false
 image:

>   rtfRegistry: 

Reviewer 3: Maybe copying the whole file here makes it loose focus on what is specific to using the private registry. What they need to configure is this rtfRegistry and the pullSecretName

The `rtfctl uninstall` command deletes any pull secret you specify during installation.

When using `rtfctl` to perform a backup and restore procedure, the backups point to your local registry URL and pull secret. 
--
 
Helm::
+
--
. <<synchronize,Synchronize your container images>> to your local registry.
. xref:install-helm.adoc#create-a-runtime-fabric-using-runtime-manager[Create a Runtime Fabric using Runtime Manager].
. In Runtime Manager, select the *Helm* path, and follow the instructions on the screen platform.
. Obtain your private `docker-server`, `docker-username`, and `docker-password`.

> . Following the *Helm* path instructions in Runtime Manager, create a secret with your docker server name, username, and password by running the following command in your Unix shell:

Reviewer 2: Following > While following

> . Following the *Helm* path instructions in Runtime Manager, create a secret with your docker server name, username, and password by running the following command in your Unix shell:

Reviewer 2: a```suggestion
. Follow the *Helm* path instructions in Runtime Manager to create a secret with your docker server name, username, and password. Run the following command in your Unix shell:
```

> . Following the *Helm* path instructions in Runtime Manager, create a secret with your docker server name, username, and password by running the following command in your Unix shell:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Follow the *Helm* path instructions in Runtime Manage to create a secret with your docker server name, username, and password by running the following command in your Unix shell:
```

+
[source,copy]
----
kubectl create secret docker-registry rtf-pull-secret --namespace <rtf-namespace> --docker-server=<docker-servername> --docker-username=<docker-username --docker-password=<docker-password> --docker-email=<docker-email>
----

[start=6]

> . Following the *Helm* path instructions, download the values.yml file to modify its values. Specifically, for the private registry configuration, update `rtfRegistry` with your local docker server, and `pullSecretName` parameter. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Follow the *Helm* path instructions to download the `values.yml` file so that you can modify its values. For the private registry configuration, update `rtfRegistry` with your local docker server, and update the `pullSecretName` parameter. 
```

> . Following the *Helm* path instructions, download the values.yml file to modify its values. Specifically, for the private registry configuration, update `rtfRegistry` with your local docker server, and `pullSecretName` parameter. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Follow the *Helm* path instructions to download the `values.yml` file to modify its values. Specifically, for the private registry configuration, update the `rtfRegistry` with your local docker server, and `pullSecretName` parameter. 
```

. Continue with the *Helm* path instructions and install Runtime Fabric in your Kubernetes cluster.

--
====

== See Also

> * xref:install-helm.adoc#values-yml-reference[Configure Values.yml Reference]

Reviewer 2: Values.yml should be values.yml because I assume the filename is lowercase.

The `rtfctl uninstall` command deletes any pull secret you specify during installation.

When using `rtfctl` to perform a backup and restore procedure, the backups point to your local registry URL and pull secret. 
--
 
Helm::
+
--
. <<synchronize,Synchronize your container images>> to your local registry.

> . xref:install-helm.adoc#create-a-runtime-fabric-using-runtime-manager[Create a Runtime Fabric using Runtime Manager], and gather the activation data.

Reviewer 4: . xref:install-helm.adoc#create-a-runtime-fabric-using-runtime-manager[Create a Runtime Fabric using Runtime Manager].

. In Runtime Manager, select the *Helm* path, and follow the instructions on the screen platform.
. Obtain your private `docker-server`, `docker-username`, and `docker-password`.
. Following the *Helm* path instructions in Runtime Manager, create a secret with your docker server name, username, and password by running the following command in your Unix shell:
+
[source,copy]
----

> kubectl create secret docker-registry rtf-pull-secret --namespace test-gke-rtf-qax-helm --docker-server=<docker-servername> --docker-username=<docker-username --docker-password=<docker-password> --docker-email=<docker-email>

Reviewer 3: test-gke-rtf-qax-helm seems like a value we were using for testing

Author: @ndinu is it correct to change it to  `--namespace <namespace-name>`?

Reviewer 4: yes, please replace "test-gke-rtf-qax-helm" with "<rtf-namespace>"

----

[start=6]

> . Following the *Helm* path instructions, download the values.yml file to modify its values. Specifically, for the private registry configuration, update `rtfRegistry` and `pullSecretName` parameters. 

Reviewer 3: The path instructions also mention to create the secret to connect to the Mulesoft registry, should we mention to omit that one? Or maybe it is obvious.

Author: Hi @ndinu that is stated in the previous step of line 203. Is that what you refer?

Reviewer 3: Re reading it, it is clear to me know 👌

[%header%autowidth.spread]
|===
|Key |Value |Example

> |`rtfRegistry` |Registry URL  |For US control plane: `rtf-runtime-registry.kprod.msap.io` +

Reviewer 3: Why do we need to provide this here? Shouldn't the customer be using their local registry?

Author: @qudaniel could you reconfirm? I added that based on your previous request.

Reviewer 4: For Helm installation, rtfRegistry in values.yaml needs have value of local-docker-server, pls replace it with "local-docker-server" @ndinu pls correct me if it is wrong.

Reviewer 3: Yes. the local-docker-server needs to go there

> |`rtfRegistry` |Registry URL  |For US control plane: `rtf-runtime-registry.kprod.msap.io` +

Reviewer 4: |`rtfRegistry` |Registry URL  |For US control plane: `<local-docker-server>`

Author: @ndinu wants me to add rtf-runtime-registry.kprod.msap.io and rtf-runtime-registry.kprod-eu.msap.io for EU control plane. 
Is this correct @ndinu @qudaniel ?

Reviewer 3: If I am understanding correctly, the registry to use should be the customer's docker server

I imagine something along the lines of:

|rtfRegistry |Registry URL | local docker server

What customers want there is to not use out mulesoft docker server.
